So if you've never solved a cube before it may seem impossibly hard
But today I'll be teaching you a method that I used to teach many people who did not believe they'd ever be able to solve
The cube and if anything along the way becomes unclear and you need more examples
Then you can check the example solve which I have a link to in the description
With that being said it's time for you to solve your first cube
So the first thing you do is find the white centerpiece and hold that on top next what you do is solve the white cross
But we also need the colors on the side to line up. So here's how you do
It find a white piece on the bottom layer like this one, but not this one. This one is a corner piece
It has three colors on it. We want these ones these edge ones in the middle. So we're gonna take this one
make sure you have the white on top take this piece from the bottom and just
move it along the bottom until you find that it's underneath the
Correct colored Center because this one's white and green and this one is a green Center
So then what you do once is there is just move it up to the top by turning the green face
180 degrees so basically just do that until you solve the entire white cross and these colors on the side also line up
But I'm going to show you what might happen that will be a bit tricky
So here I have found a white and orange piece
So I will move it down along the bottom until it's under the orange Center and then turn it 180 degrees
Till it's on the top, but these colors should be switched
so what you do in this case is move this over to the side here like this and then
Turn the top
Counterclockwise move this up here. And then
Put everything back and lastly what could happen is you're looking for the last piece of the cross and it's not anywhere on the bottom
It might be in the middle here. So if it's in the middle, what you can do is just move it into the bottom
We'll move it down into the bottom move it out of the way so that we can fix this cross piece
And now you can just solve it as usual
Alright once you've solved the whole cross make sure all these side colors match up with the Centers as well then just turn the cube
upside down
So now I'm going to teach you a really important sequence of 4 moves that will help you with everything else in the cube
So just hold the cube like I am put your left thumb on the front here and then put your right thumb on the bottom
Fingers up here and then do this turn the right side up try the top with your right hand like that
Turn the right side down and then turn the top with your left hand like this
Now just repeat that. So right-side up push with the right hand right side down push with left hand
So do it a few times so you can do it quick and now we're also going to be learning how to do that with
Our left hand because it's going to be important as well
So hold your left hand like this right thumb on front and then move up with your left hand push with your left hand
Move down and push with your right hand up push with the left down push with right
Ok, so once you can do both of those we're now going to be solving the rest of the white side
So what you have to do is look at the top for a corner with white on it such as this one and then look
At the other colors on it as well. This is green. And this is orange. So these three make up one piece
And so we have to look at where that needs to go
So it goes between the whites green and orange centers white orange green, so it goes over here
so we're gonna move the top until it goes right on top of where it should go and
then now you can insert this into here using two different ways and
one way is by holding it on the right side like this and then doing the right hand 4 moves 1 2 3 4 and
Oh, it just happened to be solved. But sometimes you'll have to repeat it before it ends up being solved
So here's another example, here's white green red. So that goes between white green and red centers
So we're gonna move the top until it goes right up above where it should go and then we're going to repeat those moves
But this time was on the left side so we could actually do that with our left hand. So
once
Not solved yet twice
3 times and there we go
Now something that might happen is you have a corner that's stuck on the bottom here and you need to take it out in order
To keep solving. So if that happens you can just hold it here and then take it out using the same moves so like and
Then you can just go on as usual
Okay, so once you've done that for every corner then just check to make sure all these colors here are also correct and then we're
gonna go on to the second layer, so
this part
So since the top center here is yellow
Your first job is to find an edge piece one of these pieces on the top that don't have yellow on it in this case
It's going to be this one over here. It's got blue and orange
So just put it on the front and then move it around so that it matches up with the center
now this is orange and blue so
blues on the right
greens on the left for the center's so since it's orange and blue it needs to go over to the right side it needs to
Go over here. So since it needs to go to the right
The first thing we're actually going to do is move it away move it towards the left side like that
Then what we do this you'll just have to memorize take this corner out using your right hand
So again using those four moves that I taught earlier 1 2 3 4 now we're going to reinsert this corner
But using our left hand so like this 1 2 3 4 and then there we go
And then another example here. We have a non yellow edge on top
It's got red and blue so match up the front color red with the red Center and this has blue on it
So the right side is green. The left side is blue. So it must be going to the left side
So it means to go to the left side you follow the same rules as before just the other way
so if you need to go to the left push to the right first like that and then
take out this left corner with your left hand and
Then put it back in using your right hand. So make sure you're holding it like this
and
There we go. So just like what the corners if you find that an edge is already in there
Just take another piece such as like any random piece and then put it in there
So you should know how to put pieces in there
And then this one will come out and then you can just do it as usual after that
All right. So once you finish the first two layers next we'll be doing the top cross the yellow cross
so we're just looking at the edges and if you see that you have no edges already done then it's just a dot and then
What you do is you turn the front clockwise like this then do the right handed four moves that I taught earlier
So 1 2 3 4 and then undo that front move
We're gonna ignore the corners here
If you see that you have like an L shape then put that on the top left and then do it again
so like this and then 4 moves and
Then I'm do so now if you get a horizontal line
Make sure you're not holding a vertical if it's horizontal then you would just do that again
Once the cross is done just like with the first cross
We want to try and line up as many pieces as we can
So here I've lined up green and orange, but I have not lined up the other two
So you're either going to be able to line up all four in which case great
You're done (with) the step or you can only line up two. So you want to hold these two solved ones
So that one's at the back and one's at the right now
If you can't do that
If they are across from each other then just do this algorithm from anywhere and this algorithm goes like this
So you move the right side up you move this pair of pieces pay attention to this pair. You move it to the left
And you put the red side back down
then you keep moving this to the left all the way till it's on the very left side and
Then you move the right side up again and put it all the way back in so like that
Alright, so if you've done that correctly you should now be able to line up everything
Is to get all of the corners into the correct spot
So this one you can see it's yellow orange blue, and it's got yellow blue red centers around it
So it's not in the right spot. This one's not in the right spot. This one is in the right spot yellow orange green
Yellow orange green now if all of them are in the right spot already thing, you're done the step
But if only one is correct, then hold it on the front, right?
If none are correct, then just do this algorithm from anywhere and the algorithm goes like this
Turn the top with your right hand right side up
Same thing with your left hand turn with your left hand left side up now all the same thing again
But downwards trying to top with your right hand right side down turn the top with your left hand left side down
Alright, so this one's still in the right spot. So just keep your finger on that and check all the other ones and nope
They're not in the right spot yet. So then just do it again
Right hand right side up left hand left side up right hand right side down left hand left side down
And then now every corner is in the right spot, but not necessarily flipped correctly as you can see from these two
So every corner is in the right spot now and so once you get to this step you should turn everything upside down
So get all these corners in the bottom later and now we're just gonna solve them one by one
But make sure you pay attention to how this works because if you make a mistake, you could mess up the whole cube
Okay, so we're gonna start by solving this bottom right corner
So we're going to do those four moves with our right hand until this one is solved. So one
two
three
Four and there it is. It's solved
So once you've done that and start doing the next corner
But make sure you bring the next corner over by turning the bottom layer don't rotate the whole cube or you'll mess things up
So just turn the bottom layer over to get the next corner and then repeat
And now that one's solved and so bring over the next one repeat
This once solved to bring over the next one
And then there you go.
So if you're new to this channel
What I do here is make tutorials on how to get faster at the Rubik's Cube as well as different things like blindfolded, one hand
bigger cubes like four by four and five by five so you can check the description below for any of those videos as well as
a video to a full example solve using the beginner method in case anything you think needs to be cleared up and if you have
a question about anything you can leave it in the comments and I actually do reply to most of them and
Lastly if you like what you see here and you'd like to support my channel then I really appreciate it if you checked out
Patreon.com/J perm. So anyway, that's it. Thank you for watching and I'll see you guys next time.
(All right. Now I'm doing a full example solved, but I assume you already have the general idea of how all these work
So I'm just gonna go a little bit faster. So here I'm gonna try to solve the white cross orange is already done
Here I have green--)
